in this tutorial I'm going to show you
how to put together a whole song so we
gotta songs other songs create song in a
call it new song I'm going to put up all
my metronomes I'm going to put the tempo
at 150 80 + 135 how about I'm going to
still have a four count i'm going to
have one bar counted the key i'm going
to make the key G and i'm going to leave
the playback sounds on so i can tell
what guitar chords I've got and I can
check my arrangement ongoingly as it's
going i'm going to save all that
information then i'm going to move on to
my cords page now at the top here you'll
notice we've got a little little bar
little sliding bar here it's got lots of
writing on it this one's called
introduction verse one verse 2 verse 3
chorus one course to the bridge a couple
of instrumental sections and an outro so
first of all we're going to go to the
introduction i'll just show you this
quickly you can get more fancy with it
so let's write a little verse G C X bar
g Dean x / g next bar scene x bar g-d
next bar ok i'm going to save that
little section in a go okay i could
listen to that back if I wanted sing
along with that sing my song along with
it if I want to whatever I feel like so
that sounds pretty good to me ok so I've
saved that already now i'm going to go
to verse 1 and i'm going to go ok just
start writing g-d e-minor which as we
know we're always right at my ear a than
e-minor next bar c g d x bar minus e x
bar see
okay so that's my verse there i'm going
to save that information right now and
it's have a listen to my verse oh yeah
do-do-do-do-do-do alright so i'm happy
with that this could be a song when i'm
writing or something that you know or
something that you want to play at the
cafe next week or something you know
it's going to happen let's write a
chorus all right here we go d minor c g
d e minor C and G oh I've made a mistake
so I've got an undo button here which is
fantastic and there we go so I'm going
to save him that's my chorus okay it's
I'm pretty happy with that of us have a
little little check of this dan den dan
den dan down down down down alright so
we've done that some happy with that
with that chorus so I'm saving him now
just so you can get more complicated in
this right more parts of course more
instrumental parts bridge parts chorus
parts you don't have to write a bridge
if just because you've called it a
bridge you can call it anything but
they're just the basic building blocks
of most songs so we're going to go to
the arrange page now this is the really
clever part here where we go intro verse
1 i'm going to repeat verse 1 and we're
going to go to a chorus i'm going to
play that intro again and get a verse 1
again going to go the chorus do two
choruses and we're out ok and save all
that information and song saved and then
i can just go to my play page
now it's going to play the whole
arrangement for me from beginning to end
without me take my eyes off it I can
just follow this little blue dot up here
follow the green dot for the time it's
going at the exact speed that I want it
to go so I'm paying the introduction now
and then this and it will keep on
scrolling like that till you get right
to the end of your song in fact want it
to the end of your song you can see how
it just scrolls through right the way
through to all the parts to the end of
your song you want to change your
arrangement it's really easy and think
okay and remove him and remove this
first because i only want one verse i'm
only going to have one chorus at the end
and i'm going to write on different
section or i can remove them all and
just start again from scratch so that's
the that's the whole tour of geek power